docs/01-rules/00-designGoals.md, before:

---
title: Design Goals
---

## Martial / Caster Imbalance
Every iteration of DnD has had some form of martial caster imbalance and 5e is no exception. There are a lot of opinions on how to solve this disparity, but I have been interested in the approach other systems like Starts Without Number have taken. Instead of having every class be somewhat competitive at doing everything they each are very strong in specific niches. I want to lean towards that direction where casters, melee martials, and ranged martials all have strongly defined niches they should excel in.

### Casters
Casters in 5e have access to extremely strong utility options for solving problems in and out of combat. As well as very strong control options and aoe damage. These will be considered casters primary niches with minimal changes.

### Melee Martials
Melee martials in 5e have the innate disadvantage of needing to be next to their target to do anything. Builds that utilize Sentinel and Polearm Master can mitigate this problem by controlling the space around them extremely effectively, however this feat tax can handicap stat progression or limit other more flavorful feat options. The goal for melee martials is to make them better at controlling the space around them without taxing their feat choices. As well as offer better options to control single targets and deal with casters (see reworked Grappler/Mage Slayer).

### Ranged Martials
Ranged martials already have a decently strong niche in dealing single target damage. They piggy back on some of the buffs melee martials have to open up late game feat choices, as well as additional tweaks to feats to offer more interesting choices. Oh yea and guns are a thing...

## 15 Minute Adventuring Days
Another large issue 5e has that exacerbates the caster imbalance, as well as skewing balance away from short rest classes, is the assumptions around how many encounters players will have each day. Where the system assumes several combats within a day, a large majority of tables end up having 1 or 2 large combats (ie. a 15 minute adventuring day). This leads to classes with large resource pools being able to dump huge amounts of value into those encounters, while classes relying on more consistent short rests have a smaller resource pool to expend. Changes to the resting and travel systems will hopefully make it harder or at least less consistent for long rest classes to regain all of their resources, as well as codify more natural opportunities for encounters that can drain player resources.

## Resting and Travel
Travel is a poorly supported pillar of the game in 5e, I want to make the journey more interesting and challenging by adding a more structured set of rules for both players and the dm to interact with. These should also add more varied skill checks that incentivize the use of underrepresented skills.

## Inspiration
The inspiration system often gets forgotten about, so giving it more specific rules, as well as giving players more options when using inspiration should make it more impactful.

Commit message:

Weapon and Design Goal Tweaks

docs/01-rules/00-designGoals.md, after:

---
title: Design Goals
---

## Player Agency
Several things have always bothered me about player agency in 5e, generally about limitations around the initiative system and trying to build around magic items in a fair and balanced way. Many of the changes are based on giving players more choices, or set clearer expectations about these topics.

## Martial / Caster Imbalance
Every iteration of DnD has had some form of martial caster imbalance and 5e is no exception. There are a lot of opinions on how to solve this disparity, but I have been interested in the approach other systems like Starts Without Number have taken. Instead of having every class be somewhat competitive at doing everything they each are very strong in specific niches. I want to lean towards that direction where casters, melee martials, and ranged martials all have strongly defined niches they should excel in.

### Casters
Casters in 5e have access to extremely strong utility options for solving problems in and out of combat. As well as very strong control options and aoe damage. These will be considered casters primary niches with minimal changes.

### Melee Martials
Melee martials in 5e have the innate disadvantage of needing to be next to their target to do anything. Builds that utilize Sentinel and Polearm Master can mitigate this problem by controlling the space around them extremely effectively, however this feat tax can handicap stat progression or limit other more flavorful feat options. The goal for melee martials is to make them better at controlling the space around them without taxing their feat choices. As well as offer better options to control single targets and deal with casters.

### Ranged Martials
Ranged martials already have a decently strong niche in dealing single target damage. They don't need massive changes to their damage output, and can largely piggy back on some of the melee martial changes. Some feats have been tweaked to offer more interesting choices, and firearms added as higher damage but more action intensive weapons.

## 15 Minute Adventuring Days
Another large issue 5e has that exacerbates the caster imbalance, as well as skewing balance away from short rest classes, is the assumptions around how many encounters players will have each day. Where the system assumes several combats within a day, a large majority of tables end up having 1 or 2 large combats (ie. a 15 minute adventuring day). This leads to classes with large resource pools being able to dump huge amounts of value into those encounters, while classes relying on more consistent short rests have a smaller resource pool to expend. Changes to the resting and travel systems will hopefully make it harder or at least less consistent for long rest classes to regain all of their resources, as well as codify more natural opportunities for encounters that can drain player resources.

## Resting and Travel
Travel is a poorly supported pillar of the game in 5e, I want to make the journey more interesting and challenging by adding a more structured set of rules for both players and the dm to interact with. These should also add more varied skill checks that incentivize the use of underrepresented skills.

## Inspiration
The inspiration system often gets forgotten about, so giving it more specific rules, as well as giving players more options when using inspiration should make it more impactful.
