docs/01-rules/03-generalRules.md, before:

---
title: General Rules
---

## Explicitly Allowed Variant Rules
- Multiclassing
- Feats
- Race Variants (Variant Human, Custom Lineage)
- Tasha's Racial ASI Swapping

## Character Creation
### Level 1 Hitpoints
Level 1 characters start with 2 Hit Dice and equivalent hit points of a level 2 character. When characters reach level 2, they don't gain hit points or a hit die. (If you multiclass out of level 1 swap your 2nd hit die and corresponding hit points accordingly.)

### Able Martials
When you reach a combined total of 9 levels (and again at 13 and 17 levels) in the following classes, you gain an additional ASI or Feat: Barbarian, Fighter, Monk, Ranger, Rogue, and three quarters of any Artificer or Paladin levels (rounded down). For example, without any multiclassing, a Paladin will gain their first additional ASI at level 12 (12 * 0.75 = 9).

## Short Rests
- Required duration reduced from 1 hour to 10 minutes.
- Cannot short rest more than 3 times per day.

## Combat
### Potions
- Potions can be drank with a bonus action.
- Potions of Healing always heal for the max die roll.

| Potion of ... | HP Regained |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Healing | 10 |
| Greater Healing | 20 |
| Superior Healing | 40 |
| Supreme Healing | 60 |

### Movement
Moving through an allies space is not difficult terrain.

### Initiative
When initiative is rolled you can choose to lower your initiative to any number below what you rolled.

### Casting Spells
Instead of any bonus action spell (cantrip or not) preventing you from casting any other leveled spell during your turn (including reactions such as Counterspell) the rule is made more intuitive in the following way:
- You cannot cast leveled spells with your action and with your bonus action in the same turn.

### Spell Scrolls
Anyone that can understand a language can attempt to use a spell scroll using the rules on p.200 of the DMG. If it is not possible for you to otherwise cast the spell (such as by preparing it), using the scroll requires a successful Arcana ability check. If the spell is on the wizard, sorcerer, or artificer spell list you can use intelligence. If the spell is on the cleric, paladin, druid, or ranger list you can use wisdom. If the spell is on the warlock or bard list you can use charisma. The DC is equal to 10 + the spells level.

### Illusions
When presented with an illusion that requires an action to investigate, it can be difficult to determine whether a creature would have a reason to be suspicious. To clarify the situation, use the creature’s passive Intelligence (Investigation) score. If their score is above the spell save DC of the caster, they are suspicious. 

They do not know for certain however, and will still err on the side of caution. An action and successful investigation check (or physical contact) is still required before the creature will act as if the illusion is fake. If the creature’s passive Intelligence (Investigation) score is below the spell save DC, the creature will not spend an action investigating unless presented with new evidence.

## Ability Checks
### Helping
To help another character with a skill check, you must be proficient in the skill they are using.

### Passive Checks (Taking 10)
Passive checks are not only for "always on" senses like perception and insight, but also to determine your typical aptitude at a task when not under pressure. In low pressure situations where you could safely attempt something multiple times, you can "take 10" instead of rolling a d20 for the check, adding your modifiers as normal (and adding or subtracting 5 if you have advantage or disadvantage). If taking 10 wouldn't give you a high enough result, you can roll the d20 instead. This is true for any ability check.

### Taking 20
If you have 10x as much time available as a task would normally take, and have the opportunity to try multiple different solutions, you can "take 20" instead of rolling a d20, adding your modifiers as normal (advantage and disadvantage have no effect). You are not able to do this when your character is threatened or distracted. This represents your characters aptitude in the best of circumstances.

Commit message:

Keep extra skills and expertise

docs/01-rules/03-generalRules.md, after:

---
title: General Rules
---

## Explicitly Allowed Variant Rules
- Multiclassing
- Feats
- Race Variants (Variant Human, Custom Lineage)
- Tasha's Racial ASI Swapping

## Character Creation
### Level 1 Hitpoints
Level 1 characters start with 2 Hit Dice and equivalent hit points of a level 2 character. When characters reach level 2, they don't gain hit points or a hit die. (If you multiclass out of level 1 swap your 2nd hit die and corresponding hit points accordingly.)

### Able Martials
When you reach a combined total of 9 levels (and again at 13 and 17 levels) in the following classes, you gain an additional ASI or Feat: Barbarian, Fighter, Monk, Ranger, Rogue, and three quarters of any Artificer or Paladin levels (rounded down). For example, without any multiclassing, a Paladin will gain their first additional ASI at level 12 (12 * 0.75 = 9).

### Skilled Martials
When you reach a combined total of 5 levels (and again at 9 levels) in the following classes, you gain proficiency in one skill from your classes available skill proficiencies: Barbarian, Fighter, Monk, Rogue, Artificer, Paladin, and Ranger.

### Expert Martials
When you reach a combined total of 9 levels in the following classes, you gain expertise in one of your proficient skills: Barbarian, Fighter, Monk, Rogue, Artificer, Paladin, and Ranger.

## Short Rests
- Required duration reduced from 1 hour to 10 minutes.
- Cannot short rest more than 3 times per day.

## Combat
### Potions
- Potions can be drank with a bonus action.
- Potions of Healing always heal for the max die roll.

| Potion of ... | HP Regained |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Healing | 10 |
| Greater Healing | 20 |
| Superior Healing | 40 |
| Supreme Healing | 60 |

### Movement
Moving through an allies space is not difficult terrain.

### Initiative
When initiative is rolled you can choose to lower your initiative to any number below what you rolled.

### Casting Spells
Instead of any bonus action spell (cantrip or not) preventing you from casting any other leveled spell during your turn (including reactions such as Counterspell) the rule is made more intuitive in the following way:
- You cannot cast leveled spells with your action and with your bonus action in the same turn.

### Spell Scrolls
Anyone that can understand a language can attempt to use a spell scroll using the rules on p.200 of the DMG. If it is not possible for you to otherwise cast the spell (such as by preparing it), using the scroll requires a successful Arcana ability check. If the spell is on the wizard, sorcerer, or artificer spell list you can use intelligence. If the spell is on the cleric, paladin, druid, or ranger list you can use wisdom. If the spell is on the warlock or bard list you can use charisma. The DC is equal to 10 + the spells level.

### Illusions
When presented with an illusion that requires an action to investigate, it can be difficult to determine whether a creature would have a reason to be suspicious. To clarify the situation, use the creature’s passive Intelligence (Investigation) score. If their score is above the spell save DC of the caster, they are suspicious. 

They do not know for certain however, and will still err on the side of caution. An action and successful investigation check (or physical contact) is still required before the creature will act as if the illusion is fake. If the creature’s passive Intelligence (Investigation) score is below the spell save DC, the creature will not spend an action investigating unless presented with new evidence.

## Ability Checks
### Helping
To help another character with a skill check, you must be proficient in the skill they are using.

### Passive Checks (Taking 10)
Passive checks are not only for "always on" senses like perception and insight, but also to determine your typical aptitude at a task when not under pressure. In low pressure situations where you could safely attempt something multiple times, you can "take 10" instead of rolling a d20 for the check, adding your modifiers as normal (and adding or subtracting 5 if you have advantage or disadvantage). If taking 10 wouldn't give you a high enough result, you can roll the d20 instead. This is true for any ability check.

### Taking 20
If you have 10x as much time available as a task would normally take, and have the opportunity to try multiple different solutions, you can "take 20" instead of rolling a d20, adding your modifiers as normal (advantage and disadvantage have no effect). You are not able to do this when your character is threatened or distracted. This represents your characters aptitude in the best of circumstances.
