docs/01-rules/06-resting.md, before:

---
title: Camping
---

## Sleeping in the Wild
Whenever you sleep in the wilderness, you cannot benefit from a long rest. This includes somewhere temporary like a cave or tent, or other squalid conditions. Long rests require at least poor conditions: safe and comfortable places like a wizard’s tower, a permanent and maintained treehouse, or a secure room safe from the weather and wandering monsters.

While in the wilderness there are situations where the party may want or need to take a long rest outside reach of proper shelter. In those cases they can spend the day setting up camp in order to make a location safe and comfortable enough to gain the benefits of a long rest.

## Camping Procedure
When the party decides to set up camp for the day perform the following steps:

**Step 1.** Each PC chooses one of the following activities to perform while camping: **set up, forage, hunker down, on watch, support, motivate, chronicle, or craft.**

**Step 2.** While the players are choosing their activities, the DM rolls on the Random Encounter table and prepares the encounter. If it’s an Environment Hazard, introduce it after the players have picked their activities but before the DCs are determined. 

**Step 3.** The PCs resolve their activities, and roleplay any scenes they’d like to have.

**Step 4.** If an encounter was rolled and it wasn’t a Hazard, the DM determines if the creatures detect the party, introducing the encounter appropriately based on that roll and the players actions. 

### Detection
When an encounter besides Hazard is rolled, the DM makes an appropriate Wisdom (Perception) check based on creatures in that encounter to detect the parties camp. The camp rolls a competing stealth check gaining appropriate bonuses from the Hunker Down and On Watch activities. If the camp is not detected the party can choose to stay hidden, or set up an ambush; and if the camp is spotted the encounter is roleplayed accordingly.

## Camping Activities
This section outlines the activities that a character can perform while camping. Each character can perform one activity per day. 

**Rangers.** Rangers can perform two activities. 

**Outlander Background.** The Wanderer feature is replaced with the following: "In addition to your normal choice of activity when travelling or camping, you can perform the Navigate, Forage, or Set Up activity." 

**DCs.** DCs are determined using two tables: Activity DCs and Activity DC Modifiers. 

**Multiple characters.** If multiple characters perform the same activity, each character rolls as normal and only the highest result is used.

### Set Up
You search the local area for an appropriate area to set up camp. The DC is determined by the environment the party is in and any relevant modifiers, as described on the activity DC tables. On a success, the party finds a relatively secure and comfortable location to set up a campsite for the day and are able to gain the benefits of a long rest when sleeping. On a failure, the location the party chooses to set up camp is less than ideal and are only able to gain partial benefits of long rest when sleeping. Each PC chooses one of the following options: regain half your maximum health and hit dice, regain your spell slots, regain all other long rest abilities/features.

**Example Proficiencies.** Intelligence or Wisdom (Survival, Investigation, or Nature). 

### Forage
You forage for food and water. The DC is determined by the environment the party is in and any relevant modifiers, as described in the Activity DC tables. On a success, you find enough food and water to feed the PCs for the day. If you beat the DC by 10+, you also find enough for the PCs’ mounts and close companions. Each unfed creature consumes 5 sp worth of rations for the day or loses 1 Hit Die. If they have no remaining Hit Dice, or don’t eat or drink for a number of days equal to their Constitution modifier, they gain a level of exhaustion. 

**Example Proficiencies.** Intelligence or Wisdom (Survival or Nature).

:::note Don't Track Rations - Just Track Water
Water is heavier and more vital than rations. 10 pounds of water is required each day, compared to 2 pounds of food, and a few days without water can be deadly.

Assume that the party can travel with 3 days worth of water per person. If they have a vehicle (or mount) carrying a barrel of water, the party has a week’s worth of water. This rule-of-thumb is enough to make foraging both simpler and more important. 

~~To prevent water being trivial to acquire, magic below 3rd level cannot provide hydration.~~
:::

### Hunker Down
You ensure the camp maintains as low a profile as possible. Ensuring the fire isn't visible from too far, any temporary structures are camouflaged, and all tracks are covered. On a success, the camp gains the players ability modifier made to hunker down added to stealth checks against being detected.

**Example Proficiencies.** Dexterity (Stealth), Wisdom (Survival), or Charisma (Deception).

### Support - NEEDS REWORK
You help the party handle the wilderness with supporting tasks like preparing meals or alcohol, tending to injuries, or repairing shoes or gear. 

The DC is 10 + the average party level, with a maximum of +10. On a success, the party gains a hit die while sleeping in the wild that day, and other party members can add a d4 to their Activity checks. 

**Example Proficiencies.** Intelligence or Wisdom (Medicine, Cook’s Utensils or Brewer’s Supplies), Intelligence or Strength (Cobbler’s Tools), Intelligence or Dexterity (Weaver’s Tools).

### Motivate - NEEDS REWORK
You motivate the party to keep up morale by playing music, coaching, persuading or intimidating the party. 

The DC is 10 + the average party level, with a maximum of +10. On a success, -- DO SOMETHING --, and players can add a d4 to any initiative checks that day. 

**Example Proficiencies.** Charisma (Persuasion), Strength or Charisma (Intimidate or Athletics), Wisdom or Charisma (Musical Instrument).

### On Watch
You vigilantly keep a look out for creatures and hazards. If other creatures are also on watch, spotting them before they spot the party requires a succeeding at a contested Wisdom (Perception) check. Otherwise you always spot them first. Seeing creatures early allows the party to ambush them if desired, or gain advantage on the stealth check to avoid detection. 

You also have a chance to spot some Environment Hazards more quickly, using the environment’s Search DC. 

**Example Proficiencies.** Wisdom (Perception).

### Chronicle - NEEDS REWORK
You chronicle the party’s journey, creating a record such as drawings, songs, poems, a journal, or maps. Any chronicle you create has a set amount of value, either in gold pieces or services. For example you could recount the chronicle at taverns for free food and beds, or sell copies of the work to a library or guild. 

Roll an ability check with one of the skills or toolkits below that you are proficient with. The chronicle has a gp value equal to the result. The value is doubled if you discover a new location or creature in the area. 

If you roll above the environment’s navigation DC, the party can travel the same route without making a navigation check in future. This includes backtracking if you become lost. 

**Example Proficiencies.** Intelligence (History, Performance, Musical Instrument, Forgery kit or Cartographer’s tools), Intelligence or Dexterity (Calligrapher’s or Painter’s supplies).

### Craft - COULD USE REWORK
Each day, you gather materials from the environment and craft one of the following, depending on the toolkit you use. The DCs are presented in the Activity DC table. 

**Potion of Healing.** You find ingredients and create a potion of healing. Roll Intelligence or Wisdom (Herbalism or Poisoner’s kit, or Alchemist’s supplies). 

**Magic Ink.** You find a faintly magical liquid in a plant or carcass, and either scribe a cantrip or 1st level spell you know, or create a letter or artwork that causes the first viewer to be under the effect of the Suggestion spell. Roll Intelligence or Wisdom (Forgery kit, Painter’s or Calligrapher’s supplies, Cartographer’s tools). 

**Poison.** You find ingredients and create a mild poison. It is an ingestion or injury poison, and causes the target to become poisoned for an hour if they fail a DC 15 Constitution Saving Throw. Roll Intelligence or Wisdom (Brewer’s or Alchemist’s supplies, Cook’s utensils, Herbalism or Poisoner’s kit). 

**Temporary Protection.** You find materials and craft a makeshift piece of protective equipment. It provides +2 AC for up to 7 days until it prevents an attack that would otherwise hit the wearer. Roll Strength or Wisdom (Woodcarver’s, Carpenter’s, Leatherworker’s, Cobbler’s, Potter’s or Weaver’s tools).

**Sharpened Weapon.** You find strange wood, a high-quality whetstone, or something similarly appropriate. With the materials you craft or sharpen a weapon. It deals +5 damage the first time it hits. Roll Dexterity or Wisdom (Mason’s, Smith’s, Tinker’s, Jeweler’s, Woodcarver’s or Carpenter’s tools). 

**Special material.** At the DM’s discretion, you can also gather materials to craft other things, though some may take longer than a day to make or require more materials.

### Activity DCs - COULD USE A RETUNE
| Environment   | Set Up    | Forage  | Hunker Down | Ink | Potion  | Poison  | Protection  | Weapon  |
| ---           | ---       | ---     | ---         | --- | ---     | ---     | ---         | ---     |
| Roads         | 15        | 10      | 20          | 20  | 20      | 20      | 15          | 15      |
| Grassland     | 15        | 5       | 15          | 15  | 15      | 15      | 15          | 15      |
| Coastal       | 10        | 10      | 10          | 10  | 15      | 10      | 15          | 15      |
| Desert        | 20        | 25      | 15          | 20  | 20      | 15      | 20          | 20      |
| Arctic        | 20        | 20      | 15          | 15  | 20      | 20      | 20          | 15      |
| Underdark     | 15        | 15      | 15          | 10  | 15      | 10      | 15          | 20      |
| Swamp         | 15        | 10      | 10          | 10  | 10      | 10      | 15          | 15      |
| Hills         | 10        | 10      | 10          | 20  | 15      | 15      | 10          | 10      |
| Forest        | 10        | 5       | 15          | 15  | 10      | 10      | 10          | 10      |
| Mountains     | 20        | 20      | 15          | 20  | 20      | 20      | 15          | 15      |
| Mountain Path | 15        | 20      | 20          | 20  | 20      | 20      | 20          | 20      |
| Water         | 15        | 15      | 15          | 10  | 10      | 10      | 20          | 20      |
| Urban         | 15        | N/A     | 10          | 25  | 25      | 25      | 25          | 25      |

#### Activity DC Modifiers - COULD USE A RETUNE
| Modifier | DC |
| --- | --- |
| Lightly obscured (eg. rain, torchlight, darkvision) | +5 |
| Heavily obscured (eg. night, heavy fog) | +10 |
| Magical Influences (eg. fey, celestial, demonic) | +/- 5 |

Commit message:

Downtime Rules, Tweak Resting/Travel

docs/01-rules/06-resting.md, after:

---
title: Camping
---

## Sleeping in the Wild
Whenever you sleep in the wilderness, you cannot benefit from a long rest. This includes somewhere temporary like a cave or tent, or other squalid conditions. Long rests require at least poor conditions: safe and comfortable places like a wizard’s tower, a permanent and maintained treehouse, or a secure room safe from the weather and wandering monsters.

While in the wilderness there are situations where the party may want or need to take a long rest outside reach of proper shelter. In those cases they can spend the day setting up camp in order to make a location safe and comfortable enough to gain the benefits of a long rest.

## Camping Procedure
When the party decides to set up camp for the day perform the following steps:

**Step 1.** Each PC chooses one of the following activities to perform while camping: **set up, forage, hunker down, on watch, support, motivate, chronicle, or craft.**

**Step 2.** While the players are choosing their activities, the DM rolls on the Random Encounter table and prepares the encounter. If it’s an Environment Hazard, introduce it after the players have picked their activities but before the DCs are determined. 

**Step 3.** The PCs resolve their activities, and roleplay any scenes they’d like to have.

**Step 4.** If an encounter was rolled and it wasn’t a Hazard, the DM determines if the creatures detect the party, introducing the encounter appropriately based on that roll and the players actions. 

### Detection
When an encounter besides Hazard is rolled, the DM makes an appropriate Wisdom (Perception) check based on creatures in that encounter to detect the parties camp. The camp rolls a competing stealth check gaining appropriate bonuses from the Hunker Down and On Watch activities. If the camp is not detected the party can choose to stay hidden, or set up an ambush; and if the camp is spotted the encounter is roleplayed accordingly.

## Camping Activities
This section outlines the activities that a character can perform while camping. Each character can perform one activity per day. 

**Rangers.** Rangers can perform two activities. 

**Outlander Background.** The Wanderer feature is replaced with the following: "In addition to your normal choice of activity when travelling or camping, you can perform the Navigate, Forage, or Set Up activity." 

**DCs.** DCs are determined using two tables: Activity DCs and Activity DC Modifiers. 

**Multiple characters.** If multiple characters perform the same activity, each character rolls as normal and only the highest result is used.

### Set Up
You search the local area for an appropriate area to set up camp. The DC is determined by the environment the party is in and any relevant modifiers, as described on the activity DC tables. On a success, the party finds a relatively secure and comfortable location to set up a campsite for the day and are able to gain the benefits of a long rest when sleeping. On a failure, the location the party chooses to set up camp is less than ideal and are only able to gain partial benefits of long rest when sleeping. Each PC chooses one of the following options: regain half your maximum health and hit dice, regain your spell slots, regain all other long rest abilities/features.

**Example Proficiencies.** Intelligence or Wisdom (Survival, Investigation, or Nature). 

### Forage
You forage for food and water. The DC is determined by the environment the party is in and any relevant modifiers, as described in the Activity DC tables. On a success, you find enough food and water to feed the PCs for the day. If you beat the DC by 10+, you also find enough for the PCs’ mounts and close companions. Each unfed creature consumes 5 sp worth of rations for the day or loses 1 Hit Die. If they have no remaining Hit Dice, or don’t eat or drink for a number of days equal to their Constitution modifier, they gain a level of exhaustion. 

**Example Proficiencies.** Intelligence or Wisdom (Survival or Nature).

:::note Don't Track Rations - Just Track Water
Water is heavier and more vital than rations. 10 pounds of water is required each day, compared to 2 pounds of food, and a few days without water can be deadly.

Assume that the party can travel with 3 days worth of water per person. If they have a vehicle (or mount) carrying a barrel of water, the party has a week’s worth of water. This rule-of-thumb is enough to make foraging both simpler and more important. 

~~To prevent water being trivial to acquire, magic below 3rd level cannot provide hydration.~~
:::

### Hunker Down
You ensure the camp maintains as low a profile as possible. Ensuring the fire isn't visible from too far, any temporary structures are camouflaged, and all tracks are covered. On a success, the camp gains the players ability modifier made to hunker down added to stealth checks against being detected.

**Example Proficiencies.** Dexterity (Stealth), Wisdom (Survival), or Charisma (Deception).

### Support - NEEDS REWORK
You help the party handle the wilderness with supporting tasks like preparing meals or alcohol, tending to injuries, or repairing shoes or gear. 

The DC is 10 + the average party level, with a maximum of +10. On a success, the party gains a hit die while sleeping in the wild that day, and other party members can add a d4 to their Activity checks. 

**Example Proficiencies.** Intelligence or Wisdom (Medicine, Cook’s Utensils or Brewer’s Supplies), Intelligence or Strength (Cobbler’s Tools), Intelligence or Dexterity (Weaver’s Tools).

### Motivate - NEEDS REWORK
You motivate the party to keep up morale by playing music, coaching, persuading or intimidating the party. 

The DC is 10 + the average party level, with a maximum of +10. On a success, -- DO SOMETHING --, and players can add a d4 to any initiative checks that day. 

**Example Proficiencies.** Charisma (Persuasion), Strength or Charisma (Intimidate or Athletics), Wisdom or Charisma (Musical Instrument).

### On Watch
You vigilantly keep a look out for creatures and hazards. If other creatures are also on watch, spotting them before they spot the party requires a succeeding at a contested Wisdom (Perception) check. Otherwise you always spot them first. Seeing creatures early allows the party to ambush them if desired, or gain advantage on the stealth check to avoid detection. 

You also have a chance to spot some Environment Hazards more quickly, using the environment’s Search DC. 

**Example Proficiencies.** Wisdom (Perception).

### Craft
Each day, you gather materials from the environment and craft one of the following, depending on the toolkit you use. The DCs are presented in the Activity DC table. 

**Potion of Healing.** You find ingredients and create a potion of healing. Roll Intelligence or Wisdom (Herbalism or Poisoner’s kit, or Alchemist’s supplies). 

**Poison.** You find ingredients and create a mild poison. It is an ingestion or injury poison, and causes the target to become poisoned for an hour if they fail a DC 15 Constitution Saving Throw. Roll Intelligence or Wisdom (Brewer’s or Alchemist’s supplies, Cook’s utensils, Herbalism or Poisoner’s kit). 

**Temporary Protection.** You find materials and craft a makeshift piece of protective equipment. It provides +2 AC for up to 7 days until it prevents an attack that would otherwise hit the wearer. Roll Strength or Wisdom (Woodcarver’s, Carpenter’s, Leatherworker’s, Cobbler’s, Potter’s or Weaver’s tools).

**Sharpened Weapon.** You find strange wood, a high-quality whetstone, or something similarly appropriate. With the materials you craft or sharpen a weapon. It deals +5 damage the first time it hits. Roll Dexterity or Wisdom (Mason’s, Smith’s, Tinker’s, Jeweler’s, Woodcarver’s or Carpenter’s tools). 

**Special material.** At the DM’s discretion, you can also gather materials to craft other things, though some may take longer than a day to make or require more materials.

**Custom Items.** Instead of gathering materials to craft above items, you can spend your time resting to work on Crafting an Item or Scribing a Spell Scroll as described in XGE on pages 128/133 respectively. You may still require special ingredients or assistance from more experienced characters to complete the item depending on its complexity.

### Activity DCs - COULD USE A RETUNE
| Environment   | Set Up    | Forage  | Hunker Down | Potion  | Poison  | Protection  | Weapon  |
| ---           | ---       | ---     | ---         | ---     | ---     | ---         | ---     |
| Roads         | 15        | 10      | 20          | 20      | 20      | 15          | 15      |
| Grassland     | 15        | 5       | 15          | 15      | 15      | 15          | 15      |
| Coastal       | 10        | 10      | 10          | 15      | 10      | 15          | 15      |
| Desert        | 20        | 25      | 15          | 20      | 15      | 20          | 20      |
| Arctic        | 20        | 20      | 15          | 20      | 20      | 20          | 15      |
| Underdark     | 15        | 15      | 15          | 15      | 10      | 15          | 20      |
| Swamp         | 15        | 10      | 10          | 10      | 10      | 15          | 15      |
| Hills         | 10        | 10      | 10          | 15      | 15      | 10          | 10      |
| Forest        | 10        | 5       | 15          | 10      | 10      | 10          | 10      |
| Mountains     | 20        | 20      | 15          | 20      | 20      | 15          | 15      |
| Mountain Path | 15        | 20      | 20          | 20      | 20      | 20          | 20      |
| Water         | 15        | 15      | 15          | 10      | 10      | 20          | 20      |
| Urban         | 15        | N/A     | 10          | 25      | 25      | 25          | 25      |

#### Activity DC Modifiers - COULD USE A RETUNE
| Modifier | DC |
| --- | --- |
| Lightly obscured (eg. rain, torchlight, darkvision) | +5 |
| Heavily obscured (eg. night, heavy fog) | +10 |
| Magical Influences (eg. fey, celestial, demonic) | +/- 5 |
